1)	How many types of shelters are there according to the construction period ?
A.4				B.2		C.3		D.1
2)	Which of the followings is included to classification of shelter according to placement ?
A.	Devices for the protection of control points
B.	Facilities built separately from the building
C.	Devices for the protection of the population
D.	Shelters agains radiation
3)	Which of the followings is included to classification of shelter according to its protective properties ?
A.	Facilities built separately from the building
B.	Devices for the protection of the population
C.	Simple shelters
D.	Devices for the protection of control points
4)	Which of the followings is included to classification of shelter according to using purposes ?
A.	Facilities built separately from the building
B.	Devices for the protection of the population
C.	Simple shelters
D.	Facilities built together with the building
5)	What is the capacity of medium-sized shelters ?
A.	100-150		B. 150-600		C.600-2000		D. 1000-2000
6)	What is the science of civil defense?
A.	Protecting environment
B.	Against war
C.	Protecting human safety and health safety
D.	Saving from natural and man-made disaster
7)	When did George Saint-Paul found "Geneva Zone Association" ?
A.	1972		B. 1932		C.1993		D. 1931
8)	When has Azerbaijan republic accepted as a member of this organization ?
A.	1931
B.	1993
C.	1963
D.	1972
9)	How many stages are population protection carried out during emergencies?
A.4				B.2		C.3		D.1
10)	Which of the followings is included to second stage works that is carried out for population protection during the emergencies ?
A.	Ensuring the normal life activity of the population in the affected regions
B.	To prevent the expansion of the consequences of an emergency or to reduce its impact
C.	Preparation for the execution of accident-rescue and other urgent works
D.	Continuation of the work started in the first stage to eliminate the consequences of the emergency 
11)	Which of the followings is not included to rescue operations ?
A.	Restriction and extinguishing of fires in movement routes and work areas 
B.	Opening of blown and damaged protective devices and rescuing people from them 
C.	Evacuation of the population from safe regions to dangerous areas 
D.	Providing first aid to injured people and transferring them to treatment facilities
12)	By which principle is evacuation of population organized ?
A.	the principle of interaction 
B.	the principle of immediate warning 
C.	constant preparedness principle
D.	production-territory principle
13)	Which of the followings is Personal chemical protection package?
A.	IPP 6	B. IPP 9	C. IPP 12	D. IPP 10
14)	Which activities of following does The international Civil Defense Organisation refer?
A.	Training of people from europian countries
B.	Training of people which under dangerous
C.	Training of representatives from all countries
D.	Training of national personnel in the field of emergency management
15)	Since when is every March 1 celebrated as " World Civil Defense Day" ?
A.	since 1931		B.since 1993		C.since 1963		D.since 1972
16)	Civil defense is…?
A.	a situation that has arisen in a certain area as a result of military operations, accidents, natural or other disasters that may cause or have caused human casualties, environmental damage to people's health, significant material losses and disruption of people's living conditions
B.	is a system of measures implemented by state authorities, legal and natural persons with the aim of ensuring the safety of the population and the territory in peacetime or wartime
C.	a set of relevant executive authorities, forces and means, special funds, communication, warning and information provision systems entrusted with the performance of civil defense duties
D.	is a system of measures implemented in advance aimed at maximally reducing the danger of emergency incidents, protecting people and their health, and reducing the amount of damage and material losses that may be caused to the environment
17)	How many types of shelters are there according to its protective properties ?
A.4				B.2		C.3		D.1
18)	How many principles are there in order to organize Civil defence in Azerbaijan Republic ?
A.	8
B.	3
C.	6
D.	4
19)	What is the massiveness and compulsion principle ?
A.	civil defense measures should cover the entire population of the Republic of Azerbaijan and be mandatory
B.	the civil defense system of the Republic of Azerbaijan is ready to start immediate and effective action during emergencies
C.	planning and coordinated implementation of civil defense measures in the Republic of Azerbaijan, taking into account the military-strategic, economic and other characteristics of individual regions, cities, production and social objects
D.	organization of civil defense measures in the entire territory of the Republic of Azerbaijan
20)	What is the civil defense system of the Republic of Azerbaijan is ready to start immediate and effective action during emergencies ?
A.	massiveness and compulsion principle
B.	constant principle
C.	territorial principle
D.	different and complex approach principle
21)	Which of the followings is included to conflicting emergencies ?
A.natural			B. extremist political struggle			C. ecological		D. man-made
22)	Which of the followings is included to non-conflicting emergencies ?
A.extremist political struggle		B. conflicts on national and religious ground	
C. ecological				D. rampant crime
23)	What is the regional emergencies ?
A.	confined to industrial facility, building or facility boundaries
B.	covers several industrial or agricultural districts, the entire city and its suburbs
C.	do not spread outside the workplace (work area), apartment
D.	they manifest themselves only in the territory of a settlement, a city or an agricultural enterprise
24)	Which of the followings is the main task of Civil Defence Comission ?
A.	To lead activities when emergency situations arise and eliminate their consequences
B.	To ensure management bodies, forces and means are always ready to act when traffic accident happened
C.	To collect news and information about the non-possibility of emergency situations
D.	Prepare and implement measures not to prevent emergencies and weaken their consequences
25)	Which of the followings is not included to the main task of Civil Defence Comission ?
A.	To carry out rescue operations and to provide assistance to the affected population 
B.	Organization of constant monitoring and control of the environment and hazardous potential objects
C.	Prepare and implement measures to prevent emergencies and weaken their consequences
D.	To ensure management bodies, forces and means are always ready to act when traffic accident happened
26)	Which of followings is the main tasks of Civil Defence headquarters during the peace time ?
A.	To organize groups of Civil Defence forces and means to carry out rescue operations 
B.	Preparation of Civil Defence plans and its analysis
C.	To maintain the confidentiality regime and implement measures to protect service secrets 
D.	To organize reconnaissance and dosimetric-chemical control 
27)	Which of followings is the main tasks of Civil Defence headquarters during the emergency time ?
A.	Organization and conduct of events to be carried out during peacetime.
B.	To create management, communication and warning systems and ensure their uninterrupted operation 
C.	Preparation of CIVIL DEFENSE plans and its analysis 
D.	To organize reconnaissance and dosimetric-chemical control 
28)	In which ages are men recruited into non-military civil defence units ? 
A.	25-50 			B.30-55			C. 18-65			D.18-62
29)	Which of the following is about assessment of bacteriological condition ? 
A.	specify the quarantine regime 
B.	investigation of their impact on the activities of economic objects, civil defense forces and the population 
C.	choosing the appropriate action options, provided that people are not injured 
D.	to determine the extent and nature of chemical poisoning
30)	Which of the following is about reconnaisseance during the war ? 
A.	periodic observation and laboratory control of contamination of air, water, soil, livestock and crop products 
B.	levels of radiation, concentration of toxic substance, direction of spread of toxic air cloud
C.	regular monitoring of the epidemic and epizootic situation in regions with probable infectious diseases
D.	to find out the situations that arise in regions where a strong industrial accident or natural disaster has occurred
31)	Which of the following is about reconnaisseance during the peacetime ? 
A.	the type of weapon used, when and where the strike was carried out, the strength and coordinates of the nuclear explosion 
B.	boundaries of the damage site 
C.	regular monitoring of the epidemic and epizootic situation in regions with probable infectious diseases
D.	how the conditions of damage have changed in the regions where rescue and other works are carried out
32)	How many degrees of vertical stability ?
A.	3		B.4		C.5		D.2
33)	Depending on the specific conditions how many modes are there which are defined for the observation and laboratory control network ? 
A.4				B.6				C.3				D.2
34)	Which of the following is Electric siren which is applied for Civil Defence ? 
A.	S-45		B. S-30			C. S-23		D. S-28
35)	How many types of harmful effects are there which occur as a result of nuclear explosion  ? 
A.5				B.3				C.2				D.8
36)	Does 60-100 kPa refer to what type of damage damage ? 
A.	moderate injury		B. mild injury		C. severe damage		D. very severe damage
37)	What kind of radiation sickness do people get from penetrating radiation at a dose of 200-400 rad?
A.	II medium degree 		B.I light degree 			C. IV very severe degree	D. III severe degree 
38)	According to the nature of the devastation caused by a nuclear explosion, full collapse zone is caused by how many Pa pressure ?
A.	ΔPf > 50 kPa	B. ΔPf = 10 ÷ 20 kPa		C. ΔPf = 20 ÷ 30 kPa	D. ΔPf = 30 ÷ 50 kPa
39)	At what overpressure are unprotected people exposed to very severe damage from a nuclear explosion?? 
A.	40-60 kPa		B. 20-40 kPa		C. 60-100 kPa		D. >100 kPa
40)	Which of the followings belongs to the III severe degree when people get radiation sickness ?
A.	200-400 rad		B. 100-200 rad		C. >600 rad		D. 400-600 rad
41)	Which of the following zones results after ΔPf = 30 ÷ 50 kPa ?
A.	Full collapse zone				C. Weak collapse zone
B.	Average destruction zone			D. Strong destruction zone
42)	Tactically, how many types classification chemical weapons are divided ?
A.	2		B.3		C.4		D.5
43)	How many types classification chemical weapons are divided by speed of effect ?
A.2		B.3		C.4		D.5
44)	How many types classification chemical weapons are divided by duration of effect ?
A.2		B.3		C.4		D.5
45)	Which of the followings is name of principle about planned measures for the protection of the population is determined  ?
A.	Purposeful and sufficient		B. Constant preparedness	C. Immediate warning		D. Territorial 
46)	Which of followings is included to the "purposeful and sufficient" principle ?
A.	connection of civil defense duties with the interests of the national economy 
B.	selection of optimal protection options based on weather forecast of expected results in emergency situations 
C.	application of low-quality parameters in the construction of civil defense facilities 
D.	non-ensuring that protective equipment is suitable for both peacetime and wartime conditions
47)	In which ages are women recruited into non-military civil defence units ? 
A.25-50		B. 18-62		C. 30-55		D. 18-55
48)	Which of followings is not included to the "purposeful and sufficient" principle ?
A.	selection of optimal protection options based on scientific forecast of expected results in emergency situations 
B.	connection of civil defense duties with the interests of the national economy 
C.	non-ensuring that protective equipment is suitable for both peacetime and wartime conditions
D.	application of high-quality parameters in the construction of civil defense facilities 
49)	How many types of shelters are there according to using purposes ?
A.4				B.2		C.3		D.1
50)	How many types of shelters are there according to placement ?
A.4				B.2		C.3		D.1
